---
layout: article
order: 21
title: "Workers"
categories: background
---
The solver can run many evaluators in parallel.
On the cloud-host I rented, the solver could be configured with 19 workers while maintaining a reasonably responsive webpage (I monitored CPU usage with htop).

Each worker repeats this process:
- Find the most important work in a database table
- Set the work as "ongoing" (to avoid processing more than once)
- Processes the work (typically: run an evaluator)
- Set the work as "done"

The workers are systemd services. Systemd provides automatic start after server reboot and worker restarts in case of a software crash.
The operator can reduce the number of systemd workers as needed.

In addition, the operator can run workers in the foreground, typically in a "screen" instance.

<h2>Work queue</h2>
The operator can queue up work with a management command:

{% highlight text %}
$ ./manage.sh add_work 11 eval_loc_16 16 37
[INFO] Adding work: 11 eval_loc_16 16 37
$
{% endhighlight %}
This adds a request for board 11 to run the 4x4 evaluator on location 37, with priority 16.

The commands "scan1" and "scan9" request to create and queue up a lot of work in one go:
{% highlight text %}
$ ./manage.sh add_work 10 scan1 2 1
[INFO] Adding work: 10 eval_loc_1 2 {1..64}
[INFO] Added 36 jobs
$ ./manage.sh add_work 10 scan9 9 1 --limit=289
[INFO] Adding work: 10 eval_loc_9 9 {1 2 3 4 5 6 14 22 30 38 46 9 17 25 33 41 42 43 44 45}
[INFO] Added 20 jobs
{% endhighlight %}

The "scan1" command expands to run a single location evaluator for all locations that are no already filled.

The "scan9" command expands to run a 3x3 evaluator for a fixed number of locations of the board.
The limit option controls how many options are actually evaluated: this is normally limited to 50 options (to reduce processing time). 

<h2>Work propagation</h2>
When an evaluator removes a segment option, it immediately requests evaluation work to be queued up to check the locations around it for knock-on effects:
- Evaluate the locations left + right or above + below the segment with priority 1
- Evaluate three 2x2 around/touching the affected segment with priority 4 

These evaluations can again result in knock-on effects.

<h2>Special workers</h2>
To avoid double use of base pieces, the solver must avoid concurrent selection of pieces on the board.
Worker 1 is therefore dedicated to running all single location evaluations.
